# Brokering by shipment value

## Brokering by shipment value helps retailers ensure their bottom line is preserved during fulfillment as well as allowing for economical split shipments when possible.

Shipment thresholds will allow retailers to ensure that packages are only split during shipping if they pass a predefined financial value threshold. Setting financial barriers to split an order allows retailers to ensure profitability when their catalog contains products with a wide variety of prices where some items fall well below the minimum cost of shipping.

When fulfilling from a distributed network of inventory, splitting orders often becomes a necessity even though the objective is to avoid splits whenever possible. Retailers try their best to avoid splitting orders when possible because it quickly drives up their fulfillment cost for which customers only pay a flat fee; so a split can often mean the retailer will lose money on shipping and even lose profit margins on orders altogether. Most mature retailers have an expansive catalog with products that cost much less than the core product that defines the primary customer base. If lower value products are split into standalone shipments during allocation, it creates an unsustainable dent in the order’s profitability. To avoid this, retailers may attempt to avoid splits all together, but holding an order until all items are committed can create a much worse experience for customers since order fulfillment time increases dramatically.

Setting order splitting thresholds based on shipment value directly addresses the problem of maintaining profitability of shipments while balancing fulfillment speed and customer experience. Retailers can set a minimum shipment value that they want to maintain during allocation that also ensures profitability of the order. When ordered items are allocated, the brokering engine will not only ensure that the allocated items meet the threshold but also that the unallocated items also meet the threshold. Checking outstanding and unallocated items of an order is equally important because if their value doesn’t meet the shipment value threshold, those items will never be automatically allocated. By checking both allocated and unallocated item totals, the brokering engine ensures that inventory is selected in a way that ensures fulfillment margins for the entire order. Shipment splitting thresholds will also enable retailers to deliver better experiences where customers create orders with a primary, high value, product and accessories for that product, such as shoes with shoe laces or soles for those shoes. Because the accessories alone will not cross the threshold, they will only be shipped with the primary product which is also how the customer expects to receive the order. But in the event a customer places an order for two primary products that both independently meet the shipment threshold, the order will be allowed to split if needed, ensuring fast delivery.

### Testimony

*Internal quote*
