# Omnichannel Retail Sales Audit tool (OReSA)

## Merchants need an automated auditing tool to ensure sales, returns and appeasements are synchronized across all systems.

Omnichannel Retail Sales Audit allows merchants to reconcile sales, returns and appeasements from their eCommerce, OMS and ERP. Merchants will be able to effortlessly find gaps and identify any missing line items through scheduled daily or monthly itemized reports for integrated systems.

Pinpointing the causes of any discrepancy is extremely difficult for merchants when periodic reconciliations like, monthly sales, returns or appeasement figures in ERP, OMS, and eCommerce do not match. Manually identifying discrepancies is tedious and often inaccurate. After finding gaps, filling variances between systems for a large number of records can take an extended period of time for auditors. Additionally, when these processes are manual, their frequency is much lower, often once a month or quarter allowing discrepncies to build up and become larger issues.

OReSA will independently sync and cross-analyze data across eCommerce, OMS and ERP. The platform will audit system integrations connected with the OMS and monitor data integrity by ensuring no sales and returns data is lost or misrepresented. Additionally, if any kind of disparity is reported, OReSA will scrutinize the entire set of data and identify the exact cause of variation, therefore, allowing merchants to easily troubleshoot the issue.

If a merchant has a third-party ERP system that does not have a pre-built integration with HotWax, then an integration between OReSA and ERP will be developed. An ideal auditing schedule for merchants may be daily, weekly, monthly, or quarterly as per their preferences.

### Testimony

*Internal quote*

*Customer quote*

To start using the feature, merchants can get in touch with an account manager at HotWax Commerce and request their auditing tool be scheduled at a frequency of their choosing.

### FAQs

**Question 1. What is the recommended frequency to schedule these reports?**

Answer: Retailers may schedule daily, weekly or monthly reports, as per their business requirements. A daily audit is recommended for retailers with high order velocity.

**Question 2. What could be possible reasons behind variations in monthly sales, returns or appeasement figures?**

Answer: When running different operations across multiple systems, certain API calls may fail or unexpectedly race conditions. As a result, failing to sync updates in ERP, eCommerce and OMS lead to mismatch in monthly sales, returns or appeasement figures.

**Question 3. Would the OReSA tool report the exact order causing the discrepancy?**

Answer: Yes, the OReSA tool would identify the areas of discrepancies and would also report problematic orders.

### Internal FAQs

**Question 1. Do we need to independently develop integration with every ERP system? Or is there some kind of self service mapping tool?** 

Answer: If HotWax does not have a ready integration with the merchant’s ERP, a new integration will be developed.

**Question 2. How would OReSA identify the exact cause of variations?**

Answer: HotWax reads and compares sales, returns and appeasement figures in files generated by ERP, OMS and eCommerce. This financial reconciliation helps in identifying missing orders and the exact variation between total amounts across all the integrated systems. If there’s any missing data or variations, a daily report addressing the discrepancies is generated and emailed to the operations team so that errors can be fixed quickly.

**Question 3: After a variance has been identified, who would ultimately resolve the issue?**

Answer: Once a variance has been identified, the client's operations team may look into the issue and contact HotWax in case of support.
